# cs203-S2020-assessment

This repository contains the assessment sheet for [Computer Science 203 Spring
2020](https://www.gregorykapfhammer.com/teaching/cs203S2020/). The instructor
will add this assessment sheet to a new GitHub Classroom repository each when
the software engineering team is completing an assignment. The instructor
invites each student in the course to master the technical and professional
skills listed on this assignment sheet. More details about how the course will
use this assessment sheet and how you will enhance it as part of this
assignment are provided in the following subsections of the README.

## Improving the Assessment

During the Spring 2020 semester, you will work in an entire-class team to
design, implement, test, document, deploy, and use two large-scale software
applications. During each week of the semester, you will work with your team on
tasks for one of these projects. Additionally, you will complete an assessment
form that documents which of the technical and professional skills in software
engineering you worked on and what your mastery level currently is for that
skill. At the start of the project, you will report that you have not mastered
any of the professional and technical skills in the field of software
engineering. As the project continues, you should aim to demonstrate adequate
and then good mastery of each professional and technical skill. By the time that
you have completed a software project, you should be able to convincingly
demonstrate that you have mastered all the technical and professional skills in
the field of software engineering.

For this laboratory assignment, please use the [GitHub flow
model](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flow/) to collaboratively develop
the assessment sheet. First, you should finalize the list of technical and
professional skills on which you want to be assessed during the Spring 2020
semester. Then, you should describe the student behaviors that would lead to an
assessment at one of the following levels:

* :disappointed: = None
* :confused: = Inadequate
* :neutral_face: = Adequate
* :smiley: = Good
* :sunglasses: = Excellent

For each skill and its assessment levels, you should also clearly explain what a
student must do to demonstrate mastery at the level of :sunglasses:. You should
also explain how the assessment for each of the technical and professional
skills will result in an overall assessment for a software project. Once you are
finished with the assessment, please update the README as necessary.

## Example of a Professional Skill

* Understanding and avoiding red flags like shallow modules,
  information leakage, and conjoined methods
  * :disappointed: = Ignores all red flags in the code
  * :confused: = Identifies red flags in the code, but does not fix them
  * :neutral_face: = Identifies red flags in the code, but only fixes some of them
  * :smiley: = Identifies red flags in the code, and fixes most or all of them
  * :sunglasses: = Identifies, understands, and fixes all red flags, while also providing
    documentation, tools, and advice that help team members develop this skill

A software engineer demonstrates the mastery of this professional skill at the :sunglasses:
level by first providing a realistic source code segment that exhibits a red
flag. The engineer should then explain how the source code was fixed to avoid
the red flag and then finally document the steps taken to ensure that other team
members would not write Python source code that also manifests this red flag.

## Example of a Technical Skill

* Running Python programs with `pyenv` and `pipenv`
  * :disappointed: = `pyenv` and `pipenv` not installed or setup on laptop
  * :confused: = Unable to run programs with `pyenv` and `pipenv`
  * :neutral_face: = Able to run programs with `pyenv` and `pipenv`
  * :smiley: = Able to run programs with `pyenv` and `pipenv` using additional commands
    and flags as necessary
  * :sunglasses: = Able to run programs with `pyenv` and `pipenv` using additional
    commands and flags to streamline workflow, while being able to provide
    assistance and troubleshooting to other students using `pyenv` and `pipenv`

A software engineer demonstrates the mastery of this technical skill at the :sunglasses:
level by providing an excerpt from their terminal window showing that they can
install the project's dependencies using `pipenv`, pick a version of Python
using `pyenv`, show the selected version of Python with `pyenv`, and run either
the program or the test suite through the use of `pyenv` and `pipenv`.

## Problems with the Assessment

If you have any problems with this assessment sheet, then please create an issue
in this repository using the "Issues" link at the top of this site. Before this
assignment is submitted by the due date, all the issues in this repository
should have been assigned to a team member, discussed, handled, marked as
resolved, and then closed.
